.TH ABAPER 1 "2026-03-11" "v1.0.0" "ABAPer CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
abaper \- command line interface for the ABAPer platform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B abaper
.I command
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B abaper
is a command line interface for the ABAPer platform.
It communicates with ABAPer APIs exposed through the ABAPer gateway
.RB ( abaper\-gw )
to support developer workflows including authentication, code generation,
deployment, and system inspection.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B login
Authenticate with ABAPer using the OAuth2 device authorization flow.
Opens a browser window for interactive login.
Credentials are stored locally in
.I ~/.abaper/tokens.yaml
with restricted permissions (0600).
.TP
.B logout
Clear stored credentials by removing the local token file.
.TP
.B status
Show connection and authentication status.
Reports the configured base URL, realm, organization, authentication state,
and API health.
.TP
.B generate
Create ABAP objects (programs, classes, interfaces) on the target SAP system.
Accepts source from a file or generates default templates.
See
.BR abaper\-generate (1)
for details.
.TP
.B deploy
Upload source code and activate an ABAP object in a single step.
Performs a save followed by activation, matching the workflow in ABAPer Editor.
See
.BR abaper\-deploy (1)
for details.
.TP
.B version
Print the CLI version.
.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-base\-url " url"
ABAPer API base URL (default:
.IR https://api.bluefunda.com ).
.TP
.BI \-\-realm " realm"
Keycloak realm (default:
.IR trm ).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIformat\fR
Output format:
.BR text " or " json
(default:
.IR text ).
.SH GENERATE FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-name " name"
Object name (required).
.TP
.BI \-\-type " type"
Object type:
.BR program ", " class ", or " interface
(default:
.IR program ).
.TP
.BI \-\-source\-file " path"
Path to ABAP source file. If omitted, a default template is generated.
.SH DEPLOY FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-name " name"
Object name (required).
.TP
.BI \-\-type " type"
Object type:
.BR program ", " class ", or " interface
(default:
.IR program ).
.TP
.BI \-\-source\-file " path"
Path to ABAP source file (required).
.SH AUTHENTICATION
ABAPer CLI uses the OAuth2 device authorization flow via Keycloak
(same flow as the ABAPer VS Code extension):
.PP
.RS 4
1. \fBabaper login\fR requests a device code from the authorization server
.br
2. Your browser opens to the verification URL
.br
3. The CLI polls for authorization completion
.br
4. Access and refresh tokens are stored locally
.RE
.PP
Tokens are automatically refreshed when expired.
The CLI uses the
.B cai\-cli
OAuth2 client ID.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is loaded in the following order of precedence:
.PP
.RS 4
1. CLI flags (\fB\-\-base\-url\fR, \fB\-\-realm\fR)
.br
2. Environment variables (\fBABAPER_BASE_URL\fR, \fBABAPER_REALM\fR, \fBABAPER_ORG\fR)
.br
3. Config file \fI~/.abaper/config.yaml\fR
.RE
.SS Config File Format
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
base_url: https://api.bluefunda.com
realm: trm
org: default
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ABAPER_BASE_URL
Override the API base URL.
.TP
.B ABAPER_REALM
Override the Keycloak realm.
.TP
.B ABAPER_ORG
Override the organization.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.abaper/config.yaml
Configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.abaper/tokens.yaml
OAuth2 tokens. Created with permissions 0600.
.SH EXAMPLES
Authenticate and check connection:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
abaper login
abaper status
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create and deploy an ABAP program:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
abaper generate \-\-type program \-\-name ZMY_REPORT
abaper deploy \-\-type program \-\-name ZMY_REPORT \-\-source\-file report.abap
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use JSON output for scripting:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
abaper status \-o json | jq '.authenticated'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run via Docker:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
docker run \-\-rm bluefunda/abaper version
docker run \-\-rm \-v ~/.abaper:/root/.abaper bluefunda/abaper status
.fi
.RE
.SH DOCKER
The CLI is available as a Docker image at
.BR bluefunda/abaper " on Docker Hub."
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
docker pull bluefunda/abaper:latest
docker pull bluefunda/abaper:v1.0.0
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.UR https://abaper.bluefunda.com
ABAPer platform
.UE ,
.UR https://github.com/bluefunda/abaper\-cli
Source code & releases
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
Bluefunda <https://bluefunda.com>
